Now that we know where is the board. Now we need to know
what are the pieces on that board. 
Let's start with one jammed board 

Focusing on one piece at a time, we need to know what exactly is this piece. 

In other terms, we have to define its type,with confidence 
 
in this case, the model is 94% sure that this is a Black Rook
 
then, the model repeatss this process for each piece on that board 


But more specifically how does it do that 

First, it crops the picture to include the piece 

Then pass that cropped image to our algorithem 
so that it can know three specific thingss: 

First, Is this square occupied or not. 
If it is occupied, then is that piece, black or white, 
Then of what type is this piece 

in this case, the square is occupied, the piece is black, and the type is a rook. 

. 
We should also mention that we have tried other approaches, 
but the cnn algorithem that we have just descibed, scored higher accuracies that other 
.. 


But we can't just throw in images to an AI model and it magically knows what is that 
We have to teach it specifically  what we are looking for. 
.. 


This process is called training, and it is simply feeding the model alot of chess images until it knows exactly how chess pieces look like 
In our case, we spent dozens of hours collecting around 5000 images, some of them were collected manually with our phoness, we have collected around 5000 images from different 


sources some of them were online, and others we pictured using our 
mobile phones. all of these imagess were then fed to the model 
to train it on how chess pieces look like. 
The result is an AI model intellegent enough to know
how does chess pieces look like
.. 


Other people stop here. But we, as chess players, saw an opportunity 
We tought our model how whole chess games, starting from the first move, 
till the checkmate, look like. 

.. 

We give the model all possibilities of chess games, 
and as the games progresses, we narrow down these possibilities. 
untill we know the best fit for the game. 
The result is an AI model that knows what are chess positions, and can also
detect illegal movess and reduce errors. 


Now we will continue with another important module, that is frame filtering

.. 


